<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@aws-amplify/data-schema](./data-schema.md) &gt; [a](./data-schema.a.md)

## a namespace

## Functions

<table><thead><tr><th>

Function


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[belongsTo(relatedModel, references)](./data-schema.a.belongsto.md)


</td><td>

Use `belongsTo()` to create a field to query the related `hasOne()` or `hasMany()` relationship. The belongsTo() method requires that a hasOne() or hasMany() relationship already exists from parent to the related model.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[boolean()](./data-schema.a.boolean.md)


</td><td>

A boolean scalar type that can be either true or false.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[combine(schemas)](./data-schema.a.combine.md)


</td><td>

The interface for merging up to 50 schemas into a single API.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[customType(fields)](./data-schema.a.customtype.md)


</td><td>

Define a custom type. This type represents an inline, typed JSON object.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[date()](./data-schema.a.date.md)


</td><td>

A date scalar type that is represented server-side as an extended ISO 8601 date string in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[datetime()](./data-schema.a.datetime.md)


</td><td>

A date time scalar type that is represented server-side as an extended ISO 8601 date and time string in the format `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sssZ`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[email()](./data-schema.a.email.md)


</td><td>

An email scalar type that is represented server-side in the format `local-part@domain-part` as defined by RFC 822.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[enum(values)](./data-schema.a.enum.md)


</td><td>

this type param pattern allows us to infer literal type values from the array without using the `as const` suffix


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[float()](./data-schema.a.float.md)


</td><td>

A float scalar type following represented server-side as an IEEE 754 floating point value.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hasMany(relatedModel, references)](./data-schema.a.hasmany.md)


</td><td>

Create a one-directional one-to-many relationship between two models using the `hasMany("MODEL_NAME", "REFERENCE_FIELD(s)")` method.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hasOne(relatedModel, references)](./data-schema.a.hasone.md)


</td><td>

Create one-to-one relationship between two models using the `hasOne("MODEL_NAME", "REFERENCE_FIELD(s)")` method. A hasOne relationship always uses a reference to the related model's identifier. Typically this is the `id` field unless overwritten with the `identifier()` method.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[id()](./data-schema.a.id.md)


</td><td>

A unique identifier scalar type. This scalar is serialized like a String but isn't meant to be human-readable. If not specified on create operations, a ULID will be auto-generated service-side.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[integer()](./data-schema.a.integer.md)


</td><td>

An integer scalar type with a supported value range between -(2^31) and 2^31-1.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ipAddress()](./data-schema.a.ipaddress.md)


</td><td>

A valid IPv4 or IPv6 address scalar type. IPv4 addresses are expected in quad-dotted notation (123.12.34.56). IPv6 addresses are expected in non-bracketed, colon-separated format (1a2b:3c4b:🔢4567). You can include an optional CIDR suffix (123.45.67.89/16) to indicate subnet mask.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[json()](./data-schema.a.json.md)


</td><td>

A JSON scalar type that is automatically parsed and loaded server-side as maps, lists, or scalar values rather than as the literal input strings.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[model(fields)](./data-schema.a.model.md)


</td><td>

A data model that creates a matching Amazon DynamoDB table and provides create, read (list and get), update, delete, and subscription APIs.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[mutation()](./data-schema.a.mutation.md)


</td><td>

Use a custom mutation to define an API request that will modify backend data or trigger a subscription event.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[phone()](./data-schema.a.phone.md)


</td><td>

A phone number scalar type thas is stored as a string server-side. Phone numbers can contain either spaces or hyphens to separate digit groups. Phone numbers without a country code are assumed to be US/North American numbers adhering to the North American Numbering Plan.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[query()](./data-schema.a.query.md)


</td><td>

Use a custom query to define an API request that will retrieve backend data.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ref(link)](./data-schema.a.ref.md)


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[schema(types)](./data-schema.a.schema.md)


</td><td>

The API and data model definition for Amplify Data. Pass in `{ <NAME>: a.model(...) }` to create a database table and exposes CRUDL operations via an API.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[string()](./data-schema.a.string.md)


</td><td>

A string scalar type that is represented server-side as a UTF-8 character sequence.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[subscription()](./data-schema.a.subscription.md)


</td><td>

Define a custom subscription to receive an event when a mutation is triggered


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[time()](./data-schema.a.time.md)


</td><td>

A time scalar type that is represented server-side as an extended ISO 8601 time string in the format `hh:mm:ss.sss`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[timestamp()](./data-schema.a.timestamp.md)


</td><td>

A timestamp scalar type that is represented by an integer value of the number of seconds before or after `1970-01-01-T00:00Z`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[url()](./data-schema.a.url.md)


</td><td>

A URL scalar type as defined by RFC 1738. For example, https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000NZW3KC/ or mailto:example<!-- -->@<!-- -->example.com. URLs must contain a schema (http, mailto) and can't contain two forward slashes (//) in the path part.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Variables

<table><thead><tr><th>

Variable


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[handler](./data-schema.a.handler.md)


</td><td>


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
